Alerting: Add support for alert notification query label interpolation (#29908)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/alerting/add-notification-template.md

+++
title = "Adding notification templating"
keywords = ["grafana", "documentation", "alerting", "alerts", "notification", "templating"]
weight = 110
+++

# Alert notification templating

> In order to help provide more detailed information to alert notification recipients, you can inject alert query 
> data into an alert notification. This page explains how to use alert query labels in your alert notifications.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can provide detailed information to alert notification recipients by injecting alert query data into an alert notification. This topic explains how you can use alert query labels in alert notifications.

```

## Adding alert label data into your alert notification

> 1. Navigate to the panel you want to add or edit an alert rule for, click the title, and then click **Edit**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the panel you want to add or edit an alert rule for.
1. Click on the panel title, and then click **Edit**.
```

> 1. On the Alert tab, click **Create Alert**. If an alert already exists for this panel, then you can just edit the alert directly on the Alert tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the Alert tab, click **Create Alert**. If an alert already exists for this panel, then you can edit the alert directly.
```

> 1. Labels that exist from the evaluation of the alert query can be used in the alert rule name or alert notification message fields. Alert data template syntax is formatted as follows: `${Label}`. See the image below for an example.    

Reviewer: This does not look like it should be a numbered step.

> 1. When you finish writing your rule, click **Save** in the upper right corner to save the alert rule and the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Save** in the upper right corner to save the alert rule and the dashboard.
```

> 1. Finally, when the alert is in the alerting state, the alert label data is injected into the notification fields where appropriate. In the cases where there are multiple unique label values, they will be shown in the notification as comma separated. 

Reviewer: This again is not a numbered step.

> 1. Finally, when the alert is in the alerting state, the alert label data is injected into the notification fields where appropriate. In the cases where there are multiple unique label values, they will be shown in the notification as comma separated. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the alert is in the alerting state, the alert label data is injected into the notification fields where appropriate.  Multiple unique label values are comma-separated. 
```

+++
title = "Alert notification templating"
keywords = ["grafana", "documentation", "alerting", "alerts", "notification", "templating"]
weight = 110
+++

# Alert notification templating

You can provide detailed information to alert notification recipients by injecting alert query data into an alert notification. 

> Labels that exist from the evaluation of the alert query can be used in the alert rule name or alert notification message fields. The alert label data is injected into the notification fields when the alert is in the alerting state. When there are multiple values for the same label, the values are comma-separated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Labels that exist from the evaluation of the alert query can be used in an alert rule name or in alert notification message fields. The alert label data is injected into the notification fields when the alert is in the alerting state. When there are multiple values for the same label, the values are comma-separated.
```

Author: I think using `the` might be more correct in this case as the alert rule name and alerting notification message are specific fields on the alert

> This topic explains how you can use alert query labels in alert notifications.

Reviewer: Move this to after the intro sentence "You can provide detailed information to alert notification recipients by injecting alert query data into an alert notification."
